so yes we begin with that breaking news
this news are the military wing of Hamas
a kasan brigade says it's released two
more Israeli captives after mediation
from qat in Egypt it says they were
released for humanitarian reasons our
correspondent Sarah haret is live in
occupi the Jerusalem for us but first
let's go to T Abu aom who's in conun in
Gaza so TK first off what are you
hearing there in Gaza about the release
of these two
captures yes that's true uh today the
military ring of Hamas Al kassan
brigades has uh posted in telegram
platform that they had released uh two
uh Israeli hostages who are dual
nationalities uh today after being
suggested before to release them due to
humanitarian uh reasons uh this time uh
the uh the military brigades of Hamas
had announced that they will release
them without any anything in any charge
uh for them also those two hostages
released due to humanitarian uh
humanitarian reasons and meanwhile
before the the Israeli occupation
government refused to receive those
hostages without having any clear
illustration why behind the reason of
not uh receiving those hostages those
hostages have been uh delivered to the
regional mediators in order to be later
uh handed over to the Israel side uh uh
uh to the Israeli side uh right now so
uh these kinds of uh release this is the
second time that uh the military ring of
Hamas released hostages before they have
released two hostages a mother and a
daughter who were holding the American
nationality uh later they were uh they
were released uh and they were handed
over to the Egyptian side in order to be
delivered to Israel so these kinds of
steps have been taken by uh the
Palestinian fighters in order to uh B
the way for further kind of prisoner
swaps in the future uh meanwhile the uh
on the ground there in Gaza the
bombardment is Relentless it's just
continuing in an unrelenting fashion
just as a third Convoy is arriving
well uh Israel keeps bounding the Gaza
Strip with thousands of strikes that
really Pro massive destruction to
Residential Building industrial sectors
and even to private and public uh
properities uh during the last hour
massive bombardment took place in
jabalia refugee camp also uh three-story
building was leveled to the ground uh uh
one Palestinian was killed and other
were and other injuries were reported
also in Dar Bah uh in der bah there was
a residential flat was destroyed in
addition a further strike took place in
a zaa whereas a residential house was
leveled to the ground and the number of
casualties also have been reported uh
till this current moment uh more than uh
400 Palestinians uh have been killed am
the ongoing Israel strikes on the bes
territory all right T we'll leave it
there for the moment T abuo and conun in
Gaza let's bring in Sarah haret whose
life has in occupied East Jerusalem and
Sarah so what about this release of the
two hostages how is news of that release
going
down well interestingly I was just
hearing tet there saying that tamas said
that they're dual Nationals but what's
being reported over here uh in Israel is
that um they're actually Israeli
citizens they say and of course none of
this is actually officially confirmed
but they're saying that they're uh two
women that are elderly um they've named
them as yurit y Shak and Yos LIF
uh one of them being 79 and one of them
being an 85 year old so still at the
moment information is coming through
it's not clear exactly the details as to
for example their nationality as I was
just saying and you know the last two um
had US citizenship if these two are
Israelis it will at least calm uh The
Temper
amongst families of those that have been
held captive because there have been
concerns that uh people with dual
citizenship or foreign citizensh ship
even were being made priority Israel has
said that it's not involved in any of
the mediations with Hamas um and of
course we know that katar and Egypt
especially Qatar with the help of the US
has been uh across this and making sure
that this is uh one of the conditions
they put forward as the releasing of
some of these captives all right Sarah
thanks for that Sarah har more with you
later well earlier I spoke with Isam
Mamon and the senior spokesman for Hamas
about the two Israeli captives that have
been released here's what he had
say it was clear uh we have declared uh
on Friday that we were ready to
release and another two Israelis women
at that time the Americans accepted to
have the two uh those two women back but
the Israelis rejected that prime
minister n rejected that but now he has
accepted that maybe under the pressure
of uh uh the street so have they
actually been released now what is the
process and when will they be returned
to Israel well they were already
released although the Israelis did not
respect uh what we have agreed on uh
they did not follow the uh rules which
was discussed anyway that shows how the
Israelis are not committed to anything
they are not committed to what uh this
whole release was done in in mediation
with katar in Egypt so so what did Hamas
in return for this release and and that
you say that Israel has not adhered to
in fact we get nothing we released them
uh for humanitarian issues uh but we
were talking about the process
itself uh everyone knows that uh we want
to guarantee the the safety of the two
women so we asked to stop bombing Gaza
at least for the time to release them
sending them to to the Red Cross and
then turning them to the authorities so
the Israelis do not follow that at uh
according to what we have agreed on
anyway it shows that on Israeli side
there is no trust can
uh be talken about you can't trust the
Israeli side and it shows how they do
not uh accept to follow the rules all
the time okay but so an Israeli military
spokesperson said on Sunday that more
than 212 people are currently being held
in Gaza presumably that is now
210 do we now have a
prospect for more uh captives to be
released well uh I I think it was clear
from uh the first time that we are not
talking about the militants the
militants are War prisoners and if you
want want to talk about them we have to
talk about
prisoners
every but we have talked about some
civilians who were kept in Gaza and we
considered those
civilians as GS they are not uh hostages
they will be sent back home as soon as
there is a special conditions uh
guarantee their safety and not being
killed by the Israeli bombing not being
killed by the Israelis in order to say
those people were killed so that
happened on Friday we hope that we may
happen better than uh what happened
today but anyway uh we will uh we will
keep is is responsible for killing of
those people because they don't care
about their lives they just want to kill
more people
do you not have a big problem with these
captives given that on the day on
October the 7th ordinary civilians
including the elderly and children were
taken and that's just created a huge
problem for you hasn't it here here we
are going back to the Israeli lies here
we are going back to the Israeli Lies We
said that the first time we have only
War prisoners soldiers from Israeli
Army and then when when the Israeli Army
fall down all the people went inside
taking those people we are just trying
to find who is where and this is a hard
job under the bombing of Israelis on
Gaza you can't follow all the lines or
or or or all the situations while Israel
is bombing everywhere so if they want if
they want to have them back they have to
give the Palestinians a chance to follow
all the threats to find where are the
people this is the idea H uh those lies
were told by the Israelis that those
people were taken as hostages it still
lies and what we have done in the last
uh in last Friday and today it shows how
they are they were lying that is zamah
Hamden senior spokesman for Hamas
speaking to us from Beirut about the two
Israeli captives that have been released
let's return now to occupied East
Jerusalem Sarah H is there for us and
Sarah so oama hamon they're saying that
the possibility of 50 captives being
released as is being reported in the
Israeli media simply not
true yeah and it's interesting because
again we still haven't heard uh from the
Israeli government we haven't heard from
prime minister Benjamin nany on this at
all um and Israeli media tends usually
to get this right but there's it's a
real Quagmire for all of those involved
you have Israel that insisting that it's
not going to negotiate at all with Hamas
it's many times been saying that Hamas
releasing captives is a form of
propaganda uh trying to prove to the
world that it that it's not um as uh in
what we what prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said is that it's not a
terrorist organization um and trying to
paint themselves in a good light and
this is a line that he's used many times
and says he won't entertain any sort of
mediation with them or any conditions
well of course Hamas you just heard
there are saying that they they've
required conditions that Israel has
agreed upon I doubt very much that
Israel will say that it's agreed on
anything it's very much uh told its
public which has been increasingly
asking questions as to when are these
captives going to be released um even
just to get some information from the
government they're telling us is very
difficult they said that they Fel have
felt that this hasn't been a priority if
those two captives at least that have
been released now are Israeli that could
potentially appease a lot of the family
members a lot of those that are
concerned for their loved ones uh that
have been taken across because so far
the focus has seemed to be on those with
jeal Nationals or foreign Nationals and
of course um because this involves many
other countries not just not just the us
but a lot of other citizens from other
countries so it'll be interesting to see
if Israel is going to be responding to
any of these claims uh this evening um
they have often done so in the past but
sometimes it takes a while and they have
uh very much uh confirmed many times
that they again will not be involved in
any form of negotiation what we do know
is that Qatar is very much pivotal to
this with the help of the us as well but
this also ties into the question as to
whether there's going to be a ground
offensive anytime soon because of course
um for many some people are saying the
delay in a ground offensive is to ensure
the release of these captives Sarah
thanks for that Sarah haret life for us
in occupied East Jerusalem thanks a lot